It is somewhat interesting that despite unit testing
being an extensively discussed topic, it is still very misunderstood,
or at least it has been in my experience.
I believe a major source of this misunderstanding
relates back to the first module.
Many applications that are written aren't easily testable.
While that generally makes automated testing more difficult,
it also means that the application isn't really unit testable.
Let's look back again at the single responsibility
example from the first module.
The original createOrder method is making several calls to external services,
customer service, payment service, and the database.
A developer might write a test case that looks something like this.
While the test might appear simple, this is not a unit test.
This is not a unit test because the test depends upon external services,
making it more akin to an integration test.
So the first key characteristics of unit tests are,
they must be run in isolation.
Here we have an Order model with simple getter/setter methods.
When initiatives to start writing unit tests come from higher up,
often the first tests written look like this; however,
this too is not a unit test.
The purpose of unit tests is not to validate at Java functions,
like in the case of assigning a value to a variable,
but to verify the behavior of the application being written.
It can be valid to test getters and setters,
but only if they're actually performing some sort of business behavior,
such as initializing a value before it is set or returned.
So the second key characteristic of unit tests is
that they verify business behavior.
So going back to createOrder, it has been updated so that it can be unit tested.
Calls to external services can be mocked out.
A less common mistake I have seen is writing a test
case that looks something like this.
In this test,
we are validating that an exception is thrown when a customer cannot be found,
and then validating that an order is successfully created
and returned if valid input is passed in.
As you might have already guessed, this too is not a unit test.
Unit tests, and really tests cases of all types,
should only verify a single scenario or code path.
Validating multiple scenarios within a single test case makes it
difficult to give a descriptive name for the test.
It will also make it difficult to understand,
when running a suite of automated tests,
what is actually failing.
Finally, here we have a test that is passing in mock dependencies,
testing a single scenario, and validating business behavior.
So this is actually a unit test.
Unit tests are not the only type of automated tests.
They are but one part in a suite of automated tests.
A common way of visualizing a test suite,
as well as the relationship of a test between one another,
is with a pyramid.
At the bottom of the pyramid,
we have the most numerous and stable of automated tests,
unit tests.
Above unit tests, we have component integration tests.
Component integration testing is admittedly a fungible term,
and might even be called by some, unit testing.
But in this course,
component integration testing are tests that cover
cross-cutting concerns like security,
and are how an application interacts with libraries it depends upon.
We will take a closer look at component integration testing in the
module on testing and using Spring Test utilities.
Above component integration tests are system integration tests.
System integration tests are concerned with verifying an
application is able to communicate with remote systems
and services it depends upon, and also handling certain failure scenarios.
System integration testing will be covered in a module on how
to use Spring to write integration tests.
Finally, at the top of the pyramid are acceptance tests.
Acceptance testing is about making sure the
application fulfills business requirements.
Acceptance testing has similarities to unit testing, but at a higher level.
Acceptance testing will be covered in a module on how to
use tests to document system behavior.
So to review, the key characteristics of unit tests are,
unit tests should be ran in isolation, should verify business behavior, and a single unit test should be verifying only a single scenario.